From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 97. Recorded
live Wednesday, January 27th, 2010. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Tellerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelrik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks about the DLR
with iron Ruby program manager,
Jimmy Shameni. Hi, So Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
this week I'm up on
campus at Microsoft and I'm
sitting here in building 41
with the one and only
Jimmy . How are you,
sir? Pretty good, Scott, how
are you? I'm well, good
user are the PM program
manager for iron Ruby, and
also iron Python right now.
That's me. So I am
here in your office, a
lovely office. You have here
a small windowless office in
the, in the middle of
the bowels of the beast.
My cave that is building
41. And I want to
know what's what's the status
of the DLR, the dynamic
language runtime what's up. So
the dynamic language run time
was announced three years ago,
or whatnot as a, as
a runtime for dynamic languages
on the CLR. What it's
turned into is a platform
that actually a C sharp
and VB have built upon.
So to either remind or
cue and listeners, the dynamic
language, runtime language specific pieces
have shipped in or shipping
in visual studio, 2000 ten.net
for Oh, okay. So you're
saying that.net for O is
a dealer, the dealer one
shipped in that, or I
guess, dealer for what you
guys call it. What do
you call it? Well, it's
system core really? It's inside
there. Yeah. So system core
has been updated with all
the dynamic language, runtime expression
trees and all the things
that dynamic language implementers we
need to depend on when
making their, their language. Okay.
There's another set of APIs,
the hosting API APIs, which
users would consume. So if
you're you want to host
one of these languages, those
are not in, in the,
in the framework. So that's
the piece of the deal
are we left outside because
we weren't done with it.
So let me see what
I understand this then. So
I want to make scott.net.
I can do that on
dotnet for, without adding any
references to any strange DLLs.
If once I've got system
and system dot Corp, I'm
doing my thing. Yep. Then
Jimmy wants to write an
application that happens to host
the scott.net scripting language. You
then bring in system dot
what you bring in Microsoft
that scripting Microsoft scripting. Okay.
So Microsoft Does scripting is
the out of band hosting.
Yup. And we've actually frozen
that API. So we, we
we've done all the due
diligence to ship it in
the framework. We just weren't
satisfied with the quality at
the time, but now we
are okay. So where do
I, where do I get
that? So that's available both.
So main place is dlr.covid.com.
Okay. It is also part
of Ruby and Python's, you
know, iron, Ruby and iron
Python's distributions, but the latest
ones on DLR dot code
Plex. Okay. Now, if I'm
using Dutton at three, five,
what are my DLR options?
There's also a build for
three, five on dlr.covid.com, which
gives you Microsoft scripting dot
DLL as well as Microsoft
scripting dot Corp. Oh, okay.
DLL, which is exactly the
same source code that we
moved into system core. In
fact, it's system core, just
renamed, basically everything that is
in system core is now
in that, in that assembly,
I can understand that system
core is supported because it's
going to ship with FORO.
So that means that if
I'm a company that wants
to use dynamic languages, it's
totally a supported thing. It's
yeah. You've got your 10
year support contract. It's in
the framework. I want to
use it on three, five.
I'm going to go to
COVID Plex and get this
what's the relationship there. That's
just an open source, a
open source project and you
know, MSPL licensed. But So
even though it's identical, when
I'm running under three, five,
it's, it's a, it's effectively
yet another open source library
that I would use. And
I have all the guarantees
that opensource provides. Yes, exactly.
Which is exactly what have
all the benefits that, Right.
Are you going to keep
those in sync or is
that the end of that?
Yeah. So those are going
to be insane. Now I
don't foresee a lot of
changes to the core soon.
I think we're going to
be doing more innovation in
the, in the hosting API
APIs. Now that while they're
the, the hosting API APIs
that a user consumes are
hardened, we said we did.
I said, we did the
due diligence to get those
in the framework. What we
didn't do is the due
diligence on the, what a
language implementer would have to
do to interface with the
hosting API. So we're still
working out those kinks and
that's, that's main the main
reason why we didn't put
it in the framework, but
that's a, that's where most
of the work will be
done in the future. But
any changes that'll happen on
the code Plex side will
be moved in the framework
what's in the framework has
moved in the code blocks,
vice versa. Okay. How does
that affect the development of
scott.net as a, as a
language developer? If I go
and invent this new language,
the fact that some of
the things aren't baked on
the hosting side, does that
change my life at all?
It shouldn't. So, so very
rarely do we actually make
breaking changes. It's just more
about making it easier, right?
So, you know, if, if
you want to take, you
know, new dependencies on, on
whatever the new things we'll
be doing, and that's great,
but as far as breaking
changes, we try not to
make those a lot, but
in the hosting API, as
far as what your users
would consume, that won't break.
So you can at least,
you know, if you, as
a language implementer have to
take some pain, you know,
you users won't have to
even rebuild. Yeah. What are
some languages that are dynamic
languages, there's Ruby and Python,
but what other ones are
people really actively working on?
So PHP is considered a
dynamic language also like Dottin
and implementation implementation. I want
to understand what's sitting on
the deal. So, so there's,
there's a bunch of random,
random things. There's a scheme
implementation ironed scheme. I don't,
I don't really know how,
how well of a scheme
implementation it's it is, it's
almost a one over lease,
but I, I'm not sure
what that means. And I'm
not a list per scheme
person. I'd have to ask
bill Childs about that. Speaking
of which bill actually wrote
a sample language for the
deal are called simple, which
is like a weird scheme
Python mixture or, Oh, so
a complete sample that shows
how to make Complete sample
of how to make a
language called simple. It's like
I said, it's a, it's
a list and Python, mashup,
basically language. So it's, it's,
you know, that's, that's cool.
There's also just, just recently,
at least announced was iron
JS. So iron J so
an iron JavaScript, JavaScript invitation
of DLR many, many, many
years ago. Yeah. So, so
the, when DLR was announced,
this was like mix six.
Yeah. Or something like that,
like that. Yeah, it was
six or seven. I don't
remember which one. It was
mix of six. Okay. So
when that was announced, there
were four languages that were
said that we were working
on. One was Ruby. One
was Python. Ruby was the
new one. And then we
also said there would be
JavaScript and there would be
VB JavaScript. And VB turned
out to be languages that
we were just using as
vetting of the design. And
what ended up happening was
they were different teams that
were maintaining them. So the
VB team had a couple
people who were working with
us and the JavaScript team
at Microsoft had a couple
people who were working with
us and we've added the
design with them. It was
great. And, you know, JavaScript
had other priorities like, you
know, with IAE and VB
with, you know, dev 10.
So we just, our schedules
didn't align. Okay. So we
use those languages as tests
basically to verify that the
DLR was a good, they're
gone to build upon there.
They still well, so the
code in our, in our
internal repository is, is, has
gone as in broken, beyond
repair, right. We atrophied, you
know, for the past four
years, we tried to keep
them working. But I think
last year we decided to
pull the plug on JS
and VB was, we pulled
the plug long, long before,
just because it was too
much for us Just to
make sure that teachers are
listening, understand this was a
sample implementation of VB VB
script. Probably it was called
the VB script. Right. And
this, this has nothing to
do and no relationship at
all with visual basic and
visual basic 10, the chips
had done it. Absolutely. Just
to make sure that folks,
okay, so then those are
dead, but those are kind
of off the fish digital.
Yep. Talk to me about
iron Ruby and iron Python
where, whereas where's their status.
I mean, are they still
toys or is it time
to start doing some work?
So iron pythons, hasn't been
a toy for a very
long time. And I are,
Ruby is definitely graduating out
of, out of toy phase,
even, even, you know, for
months it's not been a
toy, I would say. So.
So iron pythons, current releases
to dot six, two dot
six was released at the
end of December. And basically
it's compatible with Python two
six. So the current version
of Python and R and
Python are fully right. It's
a real thing. It's a
complete Python. Yeah, just, yeah.
Now the, now the places
where it's not compatible are
where, where a third party
extensions to Python had been
built that are written in
C those like num PI
for instance, that doesn't run
directly on iron Python though.
There's what is this?
yeah. A new numerical computing.
Oh, and this is a
library that's just windows specific
or iron Python Specific pregnancy.
It does work on windows.
It does work on, on
Unix, but we don't support
the C API that Python
exposes. Okay. So if I
understand, because iron Python sits
in the DLR, which is
in the CLR, that means
that iron Python is completely
managed. Yep. This is the
kind of the P of
Oak P invoke equivalent. You've
got a no totally native.
Yes, exactly. And, and while,
you know, we don't even
suggest bridging that gap because
of the P invoke a
boundary would be, would be
very costly. So, so what
we suggest for people writing
iron Python extensions, you just
write them in C sharp
and we can consume them.
But there is a project
called ironclad, which is a,
an implementation of the Python
C API on the CLR.
So you can, you can
use this library to bridge
the gap, but we don't
support that. But that's the
only place where iron Python
falls over to everywhere else,
as far as accountability in
the language. And, and, and
then integration with the.net framework
is there on iron Ruby
side, iron Ruby's approaching a
one over release. We've been
saying this for a while,
but this time actually mean
it. And so you haven't
seen this for a while.
So, so we released one
ORC. Oh, yes. At Ruby
conf, which was in the
middle of November. So we
released the first release candidate
candidate. We're planning another one
in the beginning of next
month. That'd be February, 2010. For
those of us who may
be time travelers are listening
to this interview. Yes, exactly.
So, and then, and then
we're going to hopefully not
have another RC after that,
depending on. So what, what's
the feedback? What's the vibe.
So it's, It's a, it's
a lot faster than it
used to be like a
lot faster and we're still
doing performance improvement. So the
nice thing about an open
source project and something where
we can kind of run
our test suite in, within
the course of a couple
of days to see if
we broke anything, is we
can make a pretty significant
changes even this late in
the game. So though it's
an RC we've heard, you
know, from the, the, Oh
dot nine releases when we
were coming up to the
one ORC that, you know,
performance needs to be better,
especially startups. So we've been
working on startup decreased startup
time by half in the
last, in the last, just
less release I could read,
I could read the code,
but seriously for a second,
let's pause geek out for
a second. Sure. How do
you, how did you decrease
the startup time? Why was
it slow and how did
you decrease it? So A
little trick, both in Ruby
and in Python. So it
was slow because we were,
we were jitting call sites,
which in the DLR is
basically a signature of a
method. Right. But we were,
we were getting those for
every generic type that we
used when starting up. And
that turns out to be
really, really, really slow. So
we just delayed that jet
compiling until you're actually running
the code rather than doing
it at startup. So we
would, we would pre compile
these things, thinking we re
we're smart and we worked
so, so, and it just
shows how hard language implementations
are. Hey everybody, this is
Scott coming at you from
another place in time. No
doubt. You probably bumped into
testing tasks now, and then,
and your work and, you
know, writing functional tests is
probably not your favorite thing.
It's kind of difficult. It
takes time and the results
can be dubious. Well, I'll
get ready to start liking
tests. Thanks to Tellerik with
the, the new whereby testing
framework. Building web automation test
is a breeze. You've got
code automation with advanced asp.net,
Ajax and server wide applications.
You can write a single
test, have it executed against
multiple browsers at once. You'd
benefit from a rich API
there's link support integration with
visual studio, unit testing, also
end unit X unit and
NBA unit, not to mention
the free rappers for Telerik
rad controls for ESPN and
Ajax, and several light, all
shipping with Telerik's new testing
tool. One of the best
features, the webinar testing framework,
which is developed by art
of test is it's absolutely
free. Freddie got hooked on
web testing framework, start using
it right away, go to
tellerik.com for more info. Thanks
a lot. Would you say
that you did, you did
a micro optimization, or you
just took a bet that
you were doing something to
be faster and you just
got wrong. We knew, well,
I don't know. Cause I
didn't write, I didn't write
that initial code. I'm not
sure why it was, it
was like that, but how
we found it was just
from running Ruby applications and
we're looking at their startup
and then, you know, running
the CLR profiler on our,
on our code and seeing
where we were sitting. And
we, you know, just doing
this unnecessary work in the
jet for very long time.
So it just, you know,
matter of kind of looking
at it and saying, Oh
yeah, we can remove this.
So What kind of Ruby
apps are you running? So
that, that Ruby app a
was interactive Ruby. It's the
Ruby command line program IRB,
but we also do startup
and throughput perf analysis on
rails on other web frameworks
like cinnamon. So rails runs
fine on end. Yeah. So
rails runs fine. We actually
have done a lot of
work. We did a lot
of work about six months.
Yeah. Six months ago for
a rails comp to, to
show real, real apps running
on, on iron Ruby. So
the year before that we
showed the simplest whole world
thing working right. Which was
like, Oh my God, I
don't believe we actually got
this working because it wasn't
stable, but we showed it.
And it was great. And
year later we're running a
relapse in kind of, you
know, almost, almost, But do
they have to be changed
to add inside Microsoft? No.
So the, the interesting thing
is they ran unchanged because
rails is database. So, so
I should pop up for
a second. We did have
the, not add things to
rails, but, but add, add
certain support to things like
the database, adapters and rails,
for instance, rails has a
SQL server adapter, right? That
talks through ODBC, Oh, you
want it to talk to
ado.net? Right? So, so we
had to build a it's
actually a Ruby has a
DBI database interface API, which
we then added a ado.net
implementation to. And then the
SQL server adapter for active
record, which is part of
rails that talks to SQL
server now just supports if
it uses that version of
DBI, it just, it just
worked. So we had to
do those types of changes,
but the apps don't have
to change because rails itself
is database agnostic where you
want to build the database.
It just, you, you use
Ruby code to do it
and then same thing with
the web servers. So, so
help me out. What does
this look like? Cause I
think a lot of the
people who are listening have,
have heard about iron Ruby,
they've read the blogs, but
I doubt that the majority
of people have downloaded this
and set this up. So
on windows, I go get
iron Ruby from the DLR
side at code Plex. And
then what happens? Do you
ever own a own code
black site for iron Ruby
dot code, flux.com? You just
click the download button, the
default downloads a zip file.
And basically you just had
an MSI. So, so there
is an MSI in there
too, but the default is
zip. Okay. And you, and
you just unzip it to,
to your C drive. And
I Ruby sitting in there,
the bin directory is, is,
has all the armory, binaries,
and you just double click
. It would give you
a command prompt. Okay. Which
is the same as IRB,
which is exactly the same
as that. Okay. And then
I can write, I can
do interactive Ruby. I can
teach my kid Ruby. I
can do all that kind
of try Ruby stuff. Okay.
So now I want to
make a hello world rails
application, then what do I
do? So then you'd because
Ruby, so iron Ruby is
a Ruby implementation. So we
shipped with all the things
that Ruby would usually ship
with. And one of them
is a package management program
gems. Wow. And so you
do, because you have the
Ruby installed there, you do
gem install, rails and iron
Ruby. We then go to
the Ruby gems repository on
the internet, download rails, install
the necessary programs for it.
Okay. So just want to
make sure I understand. So
Jim does ECC that you
ship is a.net application? Nope.
What is it? Jim dot
RV. It's it's well, there's
gem dot bat and then
Jim just gem, but it's
a Ruby program. Okay. So
Jim dot Pat calls, calls
Z with the program, Jammin
sends the arguments along. Yeah,
yeah. Maybe obvious to you,
but not necessarily. Sure. So
then you bring, and when
you start bringing down rails
and you're bringing it down,
Ruby code Straight Ruby. Yup.
Yup. And you're running Ruby
code at that time. And
then what's the name of
the web server that Ruby
uses. It's been a wild
screen. So rails rather than
So the, so web brick
is the default web server.
There's a bunch of other
web servers like mongrel and
thin, et cetera. You can
actually use Cassini though on
windows. Cassini is the code
name internally. Microsoft are the
old name for the visual
studio web server. You can
still find the Cassini sample.
That is true. Right. That
is true. As soon as
a beautiful thing. But let's
say that I wanted to
run this on  yes.
Then what do I do?
There's a, another binary you
download, we, we should package
it up as a gem
one of these days, but
there's something called iron Ruby
dot rack. And rack is
a Ruby framework for abstracting
away the web server from
the web framework. So rails,
Sinatra, camping, you name it,
whatever fun name. Yeah. I
know. You're just like, as
far as I'm concerned, you're
just like making, make random
names. They've got like, they've
got like, you know, Chandler
bang and, and Serpico and
you know, you just make
a names up as for,
I have no idea if
these are real things afterwards,
I'm going to go and,
and Oh fact, check me.
So, so the random web
frameworks that Ruby supports all
support, this shared rack framework,
which is basically abstracting the
request and response right away.
So we have a version
of that for iOS and
that's how you deploy any
Ruby rack based web application
on iOS. So we had
to Make a better SQL
server driver that goes to
ado rather than ODPC yep.
And the interface to talk
to . Yes. And it
was that, that interface, is
that using like I sappy
or is it using like
fast CGI? It's actually a,
an asp.net handler protocol. Yeah.
So why is it not
fascinating? Yeah. So, because I
didn't want it to be
so fast. So fast. CGI
is great when you have
two completely disconnected processes, right?
So you have your web
server and you have your
application server and you need
to bind them together. Right.
This is what we use
for PHP. Exactly. So fast
CGI talks across the process,
right. To, to communicate between
the web server and it,
well, we have IRB it's
dot net and I S
has, has the ysp.net pipeline
built right in, so we
plugged directly into that. Oh
you're yes. So your Ruby
code is actually running in
the same process that is
running the ASP and on
that app. That's cool. Does
that make things faster? It
does because we can, we
can utilize all of the
optimizations that have been done
for asp.net, at least for
the request processing. Right. We
haven't done anything crazy, like,
like rewrite rails is routing
to use asp.net routing or
anything crazy like that. I
suppose you could though, you
could, if you want wanted,
but so that, that was
just the, the kind of
design decisions as far as
doing that. So, so the
nice thing about deploying then
is it's nothing different. It's
no different than an asp.net
app. Right? Your, your rails
app has a web Configuring
it. Yeah. Right. Which would
chop it over, make an
app application pool. And if
you Exactly. So that's all
you have to do to
deploy it. Wow. So do
you know of any app
live applications that are running
iron Ruby on rails that
are out there? We can
visit This? No, because maybe
they're not telling you well,
so people are trying, let's
put it that way. So
this rail support that's really
good with this new adapter
and running on IIS is,
is only been stable for
the past couple months. So
now people are starting to
use it and starting to
try to run their apps
on it and reporting bugs.
But we've had a lot
of chatter on the mailing
list about people trying and,
and, and asking questions and,
and whatnot. So, you know,
hopefully they'll, there'll be deployments
in the near future. So
What are the speed? What's
the speed like, like I'm
just imagining, let's say that
you've got a.a.net shop. That's
got , but they've got
one Ruby app that they
need to run. Why would
they want to bring it
over? And I S and
iron Ruby, I guess probably
because they have dotnet expertise
in that space. So, so
definitely done expertise, you know,
teaching not having to relearn
how to deploy an app
is, is a crucial, right?
Sure. Maintaining it, managing it,
plugging it and all that.
Yeah. So all the same,
the deploying a Ruby app
on windows is very painful
today using standard Ruby, you,
you have to depend on
fast CGI, which you know
is okay, but it's not
as easy as, as doing
it on Linux. So for
instance, Apache has something called
mod rails, which is essentially
a native hook into Ruby
to run Ruby inside of
Apache. So it's the equivalent
of your it's the it's
the equivalent. And what's nice
is, you know, this doesn't
exist for windows, this, this,
this Apache handler actually isn't
supported on windows at all.
So, so we have an
interesting opportunity to say, you
know, if you really want
to run a Ruby on
rails applications, well, on windows,
iron Ruby is the way
to do it. So that,
that would be why, you
know, why someone would want
to do it. You think
it's a really active community,
because I think that for
the average VB and C-sharp
developer, you know, we know
that Diane Ruby and I,
and Python are out there.
We know iron Python is
more mature. Is there, I
mean, it's not like, it's
not like you hear this
promoted a lot. I mean,
I think it's a pretty
neat thing. I mean, that
people should know about, but
are you guys under the
radar is there's just like
four or five of you
guys. You're just like Pat
on this out and hoping
no one notices that you're
here. You know, some days
I feel like that, but
I think, you know, when
you know what I'm going,
I know you're not like
a VP that can talk
about strategy of whatever. Definitely.
So, you know what I'm
trying to say, Dynamic languages
are actually pretty important to
the team that is also
the C sharp and VB
team. Okay. So C sharp,
VB iron Ruby, iron Python,
F sharp, we're all part
of the same team. We're
under the same management and
because of iron Python's, you
know, kind of been here
first status, right. We're definitely
focusing on making iron Python,
you know, a first class
language on, on.net, as far
as first class dynamic language,
extremely mature is what you're
saying. Yes. And, and really
the only thing lacking right
now with iron Python is
tooling. There's no visual studio
integration and that as much
as it pains my heart,
most.net developers won't even look
at it if they can't
do file newborns. I think
that the speaking is putting
myself in the role of
the public from the point
of view of the public
F sharp came out of
nowhere and jumped in to
the new project dialogue. And,
you know, iron Python is
kind of like Rick Maraniss
and Ghostbusters where it's like,
Hey, how's it gone? Remember
me? You know, why, why,
what happened? Why are we
Rick Maraniss and Ghostbusters? I,
I don't know. I, I
would say first off that
F sharp has a specific
customer scientists who were going
to pay money with coats.
Yes. Have really nice white
money and money. And money's
important not to say we
couldn't sell, you know, Sharp
is a, is a science
and math language. Definitely Python
is too, which is interesting.
So, you know, it was
just the decision to go
with F sharp F sharp
had actually existed for a
while. Also previous to it
becoming part of O Cause
it didn't seem like it
came out of nowhere, but
it really was running under
the, So it came out
of Don Syme Don Symes
lab. And I think he's
in Cambridge, but yeah, in
Microsoft, in Cambridge. Right. And
he'd been working on it
for a very long time
and it had existed for
a long time. And it
was only when people started
hearing about it was when
it was being productized was
the word that people were
throwing around here. The long
haul too. It's like, you
know, overnight fame really involves
10 years of standup. Cause,
cause you know, we, we
actually had a lot of
overnight fame with Python and
Ruby. That was almost unjustified.
Right. It was like, it
was almost vaporware. Ruby, Ruby
was vaporware when we announced
it essentially. Right. We showed
some, some little demo with
no code. Right. And, or
at least no release code,
I should say. And, and
you know, people were going
crazy about it. And then
three years later, we're finally
getting to it. There's something
to be said for not
telling anyone that you're working
with. Yes. So, so, you
know, the, the whole way
Microsoft releases software, as far
as, you know, doing it
almost in a silo, right.
We're, we're definitely different than
that. And, and we're seeing
the, I guess the community
react differently to that. Some
people love it. And some
people are like, well, just
when it's in V S
tell me so, but I
w we're investing in Ruby
and Python, you know, this
is the we're, we're doing
the kind of next round
of planning for the next
version of visual studio, which
is kind of when everyone
gets money around here and,
you know, we're definitely involved
in going anywhere. No, no.
We're definitely involved in that,
in that, in those talks
I and Ruby is also,
you know, plan to come
along. Right. We're we're not
going to stop investing in
Ruby either. One of the
nice things about Ruby and
Python is they share so
much infrastructure. We're a team
of seven people, both Ruby
and Python, total, and yeah.
And, and we, we so
it's, but it's, it's split
down the middle. So we
have three people working on
Ruby, three people working on
Python, and then one, one
person shifting Community. Are you
taking patches? Are you tasting?
So not to Python, but
yes, to Ruby and Ruby,
It's an open source project
at Microsoft that takes code
from the community. Yes. You
heard that people. Yes. And
an iron Python has been
forked more than once in
the past, though, those forks
are, are, are no longer
maintained, but people had forked
iron Python calling it fi
PI, F E PI, you
know, whatever, as the mano
compatible version of, of iron
Python. But now we, we
actually Ruby and Python both
run fine right out of
the box on mano. So,
so those, those projects aren't
needed anymore. Actually one of
our release criteria is for,
and Ruby is, you know,
doing some testing on Moto
and making sure, you know,
we tell mano about the
books. Not, not that we,
you know, we, we won't
work around them if we
think there are there actually
bugs and motto, but they
fix their bugs so fast.
It's unbelievable. Like days, days,
it's, it's crazy. What are
the sites that people can
go to, to learn about
the DLR in general and
you know, the DLR and
Dutton at four and where
can they go to get
iron Python, Ruby, give me
those. So deal ARDEC code,
flex.com has everything about the
DLR. It has a bunch
of documentation about if you
were a someone wanting to
use it, how would you
use it? If you're a
language implementer, if you're a
library designer and you want
to use the DLR support
to expose a more dynamic
API, right. Using the dynamic
keyword and C-sharp and whatnot.
So, so that all that
stuff is on dlr.covid.com, including
links to more MSDN documentation
and the documentation that is
on MSDN, hence MSDN like
exactly Ruby and Python, iron
ruby.covid.com and iron Python dot
code plugs.com both have the,
the latest releases for both
those languages also links to
documentation and whatnot. So that's
where you go for all
these things. And then, and
when Dutton had four ships
in April, there'll be compatible
releases for those. Yes. So,
so we are definitely committed
for iron Python to have
a fully supported, fully supported
as in one of our
major versions. You know, as
much as iron Python has
supported version of.net for, for
iron Ruby, we're also aiming
for that. We might have,
it might be a CTP
again, until we, you know,
can test things out. Cause
we're trying to ship the
first version possible. There's a
chance that it might happen,
but we're trying to ship
one out right now and,
and adding dotnet FORO to
our test matrix is ridiculous.
I am. Ruby is primarily
three, five right now. It's
actually, so they all run
on to OSP one. We
don't, we don't have any
specific code for three, five.
Yeah. Oh, that's cool. Yeah.
So, so when you run
under three, five, even report
the version numbers to have
it to OSP, because that's
what we're, we're linking against.
And, but, but Don at
four O version will be
a, you have to use
domino, right? They would take
them to would be a
big deal. Thanks a lot
for talking to me today.
I really appreciate it, man.
No problem. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.